.TH "admin-status" "1" "Simple-Admin 1.1" "" "Simple-Admin 1.1"
.\" -----------------------------------------------------------------
.\" * disable hyphenation
.nh
.\" * disable justification (adjust text to left margin only)
.ad l
.\" -----------------------------------------------------------------
.SH "NAME"
admin-status -- checks and prints the machine and process status
.SH "SYNOPSIS"
.sp
.nf
\fBadmin-status\fR [-\fBs\fR]
.fi
.sp
.SH "DESCRIPTION"
.sp
Prints a summary of the most important machine and process metrics. Processes
are checked for existance only, not probed in any other way. An example output:
.sp
.nf
    loadavg:    0.00, 0.01, 0.05       -- 4 processors
    memory:     298 MB (60.1%) free    -- 108 rss, 90 cache, 9 swap, 496 total (MB)
    storage:    16.3 GB (69.4%) free   -- 7.2 GB used, 23.6 GB total on /dev/xvda
    * cron:     OK                     -- pid:  2223,  rss:   0.8 MB,  swap:   0 MB
    * ntp:      OK                     -- pid:  2659,  rss:   1.8 MB,  swap:   0 MB
.fi
.sp
Information is read from the \fB/proc\fR filesystem or via the \fBps\fR
utility.
.sp
.SH "OPTIONS"
.sp
-\fBs\fR
.RS 4
Prints a short summary without listing process status.
.RE
.sp
.SH "CONFIGURATION"
.sp
The processes to check are configured in \fB/etc/admin-status.conf\fR with one
line per process. No comment or blank lines are allowed. Each line contains the
process or service name, pid file and optional command-line match:
.sp
.nf
    cron    /var/run/crond.pid
    sshd    /var/run/sshd.pid
    local   -       local-command
.fi
.sp
If \fB-\fR is specified as the pid file, the process lookup is made by name
(optionally using the command-line match). Process lookup is also made by name
if the pid file didn't exist or didn't match a running process.
.sp
.SH "FILES"
.sp
.B /etc/admin-status.conf
.RS 4
Service configuration file with one line per service.
.RE
.sp
.SH "SEE ALSO"
.sp
\fBdf\fR(1), \fBps\fR(1), \fBpstree\fR(1), \fBproc\fR(5), \fBpidof\fR(8)
