.TH "admin-restart" "1" "Simple-Admin 1.1" "" "Simple-Admin 1.1"
.\" -----------------------------------------------------------------
.\" * disable hyphenation
.nh
.\" * disable justification (adjust text to left margin only)
.ad l
.\" -----------------------------------------------------------------
.SH "NAME"
admin-restart -- restarts a group of services in a predefined order
.SH "SYNOPSIS"
.sp
.nf
\fBadmin-restart\fR [-\fBq\fR] \fIgroupname\fR
.fi
.sp
.SH "DESCRIPTION"
.sp
Restarts a \fIgroupname\fR of services in a predefined order. Optionally also
checks that processes are created or disappear as expected. An example output:
.sp
.nf
    2013-03-19 11:20:47: stopping service nginx (pid: 3903)...
    2013-03-19 11:20:47: service nginx (pid: 3903) stopped
    2013-03-19 11:20:47: stopping service jetty (pid: 3565)...
    2013-03-19 11:20:51: service jetty (pid: 3565) stopped
    2013-03-19 11:20:51: starting service jetty...
    2013-03-19 11:21:07: service jetty (pid: 10938) started
    2013-03-19 11:21:07: starting service nginx...
    2013-03-19 11:21:07: service nginx (pid: 10977) started
.fi
.sp
.SH "OPTIONS"
.sp
-\fBq\fR
.RS 4
Quiet mode. Only prints errors to the standard error.
.RE
.sp
.SH "CONFIGURATION"
.sp
The \fIgroupname\fR names and corresponding start and stop commands are configured
in \fB/etc/admin-restart.conf\fR using shell script syntax:
.sp
.nf
    group_web="Restart the Nginx and Jetty services"

    start_web() {
        start jetty 10
        wget --quiet --spider localhost:8080 || fail "jetty not running"
        start nginx
    }

    stop_web() {
        stop nginx 10 force
        stop jetty 30 force
    }
.fi
.sp
Each service group must define the shell variables \fBgroup_\fIgroupname\fR,
\fBstart_\fIgroupname\fR and \fBstop_\fIgroupname\fR containing a description
and the start and stop commands. A number of built-in helper commands are
available to simplify the startup or shutdown of services:

.RS 4
.B start \fIservice\fR [\fIwait\fR]
.RS 4
Starts a service (with \fBservice \fIservice\fB start\fR) and optionally waits
\fIwait\fR seconds for the process to start.
.RE

.B stop \fIservice\fR [\fIwait\fR] [\fBforce\fR]
.RS 4
Stops a service (with \fBservice \fIservice\fB stop\fR) and optionally waits
\fIwait\fR seconds for the process to terminate. If \fBforce\fR is specified,
the process will be signalled with \fBTERM\fR and \fBKILL\fR if it doesn't
exit gracefully.
.RE

.B warn \fImessage\fR
.RS 4
Prints a message to the standard error.
.RE

.B fail \fImessage\fR
.RS 4
Prints a message to the standard error and exits with an error code.
.RE

.B log \fImessage\fR
.RS 4
Prints a log message to the standard output (if not in quiet mode).
.RE
.RE
.sp
.SH "FILES"
.sp
.B /etc/admin-restart.conf
.RS 4
Service group configuration file in shell syntax.
.RE
.sp
.SH "SEE ALSO"
.sp
\fBservice\fR(8)
