.TH "simple-www-stats" "1" "Simple-Admin" "" "Simple-Admin"
.\" -----------------------------------------------------------------
.\" * disable hyphenation
.nh
.\" * disable justification (adjust text to left margin only)
.ad l
.\" -----------------------------------------------------------------
.SH "NAME"
simple-www-stats -- generates HTTP access log summary statistics
.SH "SYNOPSIS"
.sp
.nf
\fBsimple-www-stats\fR [\fB--json \fIfile\fR] [\fB--text \fIfile\fR] \fIlogfile\fR ...
.fi
.sp
.SH "DESCRIPTION"
.sp
Processes HTTP access log files and generates summary statistics. Output can
be generated in text and/or JSON format. If no output option is specified, the
default is a text report to the standard output.

The \fBsimple-www-stats\fR tool automatically recognizes the fields in the
\fIlogfile\fR. The field order is therefore allowed to vary when multiple files
are specified on the command line. The \fIlogfile\fR may be compressed (using
\fB.bz2\fR, \fB.gz\fR, \fB.lzma\fR or \fB.xz\fR file extensions) or specified
as \fB-\fR to read from standard input.
.sp
.SH "OPTIONS"
.sp
\fB--json \fIfile\fR
.RS 4
Write JSON output to the specified \fIfile\fR.
.RE

\fB--text \fIfile\fR
.RS 4
Write text output to the specified \fIfile\fR.
.RE
.sp
.SH "CONFIGURATION"
.sp
The \fB/etc/simple-www-stats.conf\fR file contains mappings from error URLs
to readable messages. Each line contains a URL glob (supporting \fB?\fR and
\fB*\fR chars) and a message to use:

.nf
    /robots.txt                     missing /robots.txt
    /favicon.ico                    missing /favicon.ico
    */cgi*                          bot probe (cgi-bin)
    */phpMyAdmin*                   bot probe (phpMyAdmin)
.fi

All standard HTTP log file formats are automatically recognized, but a number
of additional fields are also supported. Here is a recommended Nginx format:

.nf
    log_format custom '$remote_addr - $remote_user [$time_local] "$request" '
                      '$status $body_bytes_sent "$http_referer" '
                      '"$http_user_agent" $host cache:$upstream_cache_status '
                      'time:$request_time backend:$upstream_response_time';
.fi

This will print log files with entries similar to this edited one (with one
line per entry):

.nf
    66.249.73.70 - - [07/Dec/2012:00:05:17 +0000] "GET / HTTP/1.1" 200 3391
    "-" "Mozilla/5.0 ..." www.site.com cache:MISS time:0.451 backend:0.008
.fi
.sp
.SH "VIEWER TOOL"
.sp
The JSON stats can be charted with a quick HTML viewer tool, bundled in the
\fBshare/simple-www-stats.html\fR file. Copy or symlink this file into the
directory containing JSON report files. The JSON report files must be named
\fBlogstats.\fIdate\fB.json\fR, just as the ones \fBsimple-www-logrotate\fR
creates.
.sp
.SH "FILES"
.sp
.B /etc/simple-www-stats.conf
.RS 4
Error message configuration file with one line per URL to match.
.RE
.sp
.SH "SEE ALSO"
.sp
\fBsimple-www-logrotate\fR(1)
