.TH "simple-backup-files" "1" "Simple-Admin 1.1" "" "Simple-Admin 1.1"
.\" -----------------------------------------------------------------
.\" * disable hyphenation
.nh
.\" * disable justification (adjust text to left margin only)
.ad l
.\" -----------------------------------------------------------------
.SH "NAME"
simple-backup-files -- performs a file system backup for configured directories
.SH "SYNOPSIS"
.sp
.nf
\fBsimple-backup-files\fR [-\fBv\fR]
.fi
.sp
.SH "DESCRIPTION"
.sp
Performs a file system backup with \fBrsync\fR of the directories listed in
\fB/etc/simple-backup-files.conf\fR. All the files will be recursively copied
to a new directory \fB/backup/\fIhostname\fB/files/\fItimestamp\fR. A symbolic
link \fB/backup/\fIhostname\fB/files/latest\fR always points to the last
complete backup.

The first backup every day and every month have a different timestamp format
(omitting hours and minutes). The monthly backup directories are kept
indefinitely, but daily backups are only preserved for 30 days. Other
timestamped backup directories are preserved for 48 hours.

In order to save space, identical files are hard linked between the current
and the previous backup directory. The directory structure itself cannot be
hard linked however, so each backup will require some disk usage. Backups of
large number of files and directories will require many MBs of disk space even
if all files remain unmodified.

The backup can be run as frequently as every minute, but should probably be
run once per day to keep disk usage down.
.sp
.SH "OPTIONS"
.sp
-\fBv\fR
.RS 4
Print verbose output.
.RE
.sp
.SH "CONFIGURATION"
.sp
The backup is configured in \fB/etc/simple-backup-files.conf\fR with one line
per directory. Comment or blank lines are ignored. Each line contains a
directory path and an optional number retention days:
.sp
.nf
    /etc
    /home
    /root
    /var/log   5
.fi
.sp
The optional retention days specifies the maximum number of days to keep the
files from that directory. This value only reduces the default file retention
(as specified above).
.sp
.SH "FILES"
.sp
.B /etc/simple-backup-files.conf
.RS 4
Backup configuration file with one line per directory.
.RE

.B /backup
.RS 4
Backup directory with subdirectories per hostname.
.RE
.sp
.SH "SEE ALSO"
.sp
\fBsimple-backup-status\fR(1),
\fBrsync\fR(1),
<http://cederberg.github.com/simple-admin/>
