.TH "simple-status" "1" "Simple-Admin" "" "Simple-Admin"
.\" -----------------------------------------------------------------
.\" * disable hyphenation
.nh
.\" * disable justification (adjust text to left margin only)
.ad l
.\" -----------------------------------------------------------------
.SH "NAME"
simple-status -- checks and prints the machine and process status
.SH "SYNOPSIS"
.sp
.nf
\fBsimple-status\fR [options]
.fi
.sp
.SH "DESCRIPTION"
.sp
Prints a summary of the most important machine and process metrics. Processes
are checked for existence only, not probed in any other way. An example output:
.sp
.nf
    loadavg:    0.00, 0.01, 0.05       -- 4 processors
    memory:     298 MB (60.1%) free    -- 108 rss, 90 cache, 9 swap, 496 total (MB)
    storage:    16.3 GB (69.4%) free   -- 7.2 GB used, 23.6 GB total on /dev/xvda
    [OK] cron                          -- pid:  2223,  rss:   0.8 MB,  swap:   0 MB
    [OK] ntp                           -- pid:  2659,  rss:   1.8 MB,  swap:   0 MB
.fi
.sp
Information is read from the \fB/proc\fR filesystem or via the \fBps\fR
utility.
.sp
.SH "OPTIONS"
.sp
-\fBs\fR, --\fBshort\fR
.RS 4
Prints a short summary without process listing.
.RE
-\fBm\fR, --\fBmedium\fR
.RS 4
Prints a medium length report, with only configured processes.
.RE
--\fBfull\fR
.RS 4
Prints a full report (default).
.RE
--\fBjson\fR
.RS 4
Prints the report in JSON output format.
.RE
.sp
.SH "CONFIGURATION"
.sp
The processes to check are configured in \fB/etc/simple-status.conf\fR with one
line per process. Comment or blank lines are ignored. Each line contains the
process or service name, pid file and an optional command-line match:
.sp
.nf
    cron            /var/run/crond.pid
    sshd            /var/run/sshd.pid
    local           - local-command-match
    -rsyslog        /var/run/rsyslogd.pid
.fi
.sp
If \fB-\fR is specified as the pid file, the process lookup is made by name
(optionally using the command-line match). Process lookup is also made by name
if the pid file didn't exist or didn't match a running process.

Processes with a leading \fB-\fR character in the name are optional. These will be
hidden in the medium report and not reported when not running.
.sp
.SH "FILES"
.sp
.B /etc/simple-status.conf
.RS 4
Service configuration file with one line per service.
.RE
.sp
.SH "SEE ALSO"
.sp
\fBdf\fR(1), \fBps\fR(1), \fBpstree\fR(1), \fBproc\fR(5), \fBpidof\fR(8),
<http://www.simple-admin.org/>
